okay if you're just joining us it is
approaching 5 GMT that is 7 a.m. in Gaza
and I want to bring you some breaking
news as it gets down to the very last
minute the Israeli military has
announced in just the last few minutes
that the ceasefire with Hamas will
continue in light of efforts to release
more hostages it is not yet clear for
how long that ceas fire will be extended
but I just want to bring you this latest
information that is coming to us
according to Hamas a statement from
Hamas they have agreed to extend the
truce for a seventh day uh which will uh
given the truce has already gone on for
six days that means one more day a
statement coming from the Israeli
military says the that the truce the
Gaza truce will
continue and uh in light of the
mediators efforts to continue the
process of releasing hostages and
subject to the terms of the agreement
that truce is going to continue so we
are approaching just 7 a.m. in Gaza and
Israel and that fragile Six-Day truce in
that devastating war between Israel and
Hamas it appears is now going to
continue for at least another 24 hours
let's go to our correspondent Imran Khan
who joins us now live from occupied East
Jerusalem it went down right to the wire
it is just about approaching 7:00 a.m.
in Gaza and Israel when that truce was
expected that ceasefire to uh to to end
but it seems now that it has been
extended what are you
hearing well we're hearing the IDF
statement the Israeli Army statement
which you just read out on air uh this
statement is kind of worth unpacking
here it says enlighted the mediator's
efforts to continue the process of
releasing the hostage and subject to the
frames to the terms of the framework the
operational pause will continue this is
in STK contrast to what was happening
just a few hours ago when we were
hearing that Hamas had given the
Israelis a list of 10 captives that they
were going to release but that had been
rejected now we have seen negotiations
very hard negotiations take place over
the few days about the what kind of
names we should be on the list where
they were going to come from where they
were going to be released from which
place uh things of that nature but there
was never an outright rejection of names
it was always uh about finessing this
this outright rejection of names means
that there was something else in this
negotiation we don't know what that is
the Israeli media is full of speculation
uh suggesting that it may have been
because uh there were some dead bodies
in that list and that may have not been
acceptable to the Israelis uh but once
again the uh the Israeli Army issuing
this statement a very last minute reply
uh sorry um rest fite for the
Palestinians in Gaza it was 10 minutes
literally 10 minutes uh before the end
of the ceasefire now there is a second
part of the statement uh which says uh
in light of the mediator's efforts to
continue the process of releasing the
hostages um the operational pause will
continue now that's an interesting bit
as well because the International
Community particularly Qatar Egypt and
the US have really been pushing uh for
this ceasefire now the last time a
ceasefire extension was announced it was
two days this one is only for the next
24 hours this goes to show you how hard
FR these negotiations are uh how
difficult it is for the qari mediators
and Egypt and the us to get to an
agreement but an agreement has been
reached and it was reached with 10
minutes to go
yes indeed uh Imran uh in the past it's
worth reminding our viewers about how
fraught the process normally is I mean
it's it's day by day that this these
lists are handed out uh and we have seen
in the past issues with lists provided
by Hamas But ultimately as we've seen
now again the negotiators have managed
to work through any
problems that's absolutely right is
something I was just talking about
earlier there are these negotiations are
incredibly uh fraud but you know
Palestinians um have been released um is
worth giving you uh some numbers right
now um we're looking at at least
um just going through my phone to get
all the the details let's talk about the
Israelis first there 23 ties one
Filipino those are the international
people that have been released 74
Israelis have actually been released in
this now um that's actually quite a
large number over the last 5 days
normally what happens is you get 10
Israeli captives being released for
every 30 Palestinian prisoners that are
released that's been the ratio it's been
a ratio that's kind of worked out the
names as we say have been an issue
there's a problem for Hamas here though
because the people the vast majority of
the people who have been released have
been arrested uh since October the 7th
or they're coming to the end of their
sentences Hamas would like to see
Palestinian prisoners that have a long
time to go on their sentences to be
released they're not getting that um the
Israelis for their part have always
maintained this ceasefire is only useful
to them as long as Israeli captives are
getting out this isn't about getting
humanitarian Aid into Gaza it's not
about uh independent observers or
allowing independent un observers or
journalists into the strip this is
simply about getting people in there is
another thing here though as well like
we say this is a ceasefire extension for
24 hours uh that's the limit so far but
the tough talk from the Israelis is we
will go back into Gaza at a time of our
choosing now there have been leaks from
the war cabinet the Israeli War cabinet
that suggest that the absolute final
deadline for all of this is Sunday that
will be a 10day ceasefire after 10 days
that's the maximum the Israelis want to
see this pause in fighting now clearly
the international mediators and
everybody would like to see this go on
for much longer but the Israelis very
very blunt in fact um there was a
statement from the Israeli War cabinet
it was a leaked statement uh saying that
they would go in their time of they
choosing and they've warned the
Americans about this talking of the
Americans Anthony blinkin the US
Secretary of State is in town right now
he's in Tel Aviv uh he's meeting he's
going going to be meeting with the Prime
Minister and the president and senior
members of uh the
military there's an unwritten law uh of
diplomacy here in Israel uh that says
that no major offensives either
politically or militarily should happen
whilst a senior us uh Diplomat is in
country that may have had something to
do with this that may be that that's why
they've extended it for 2 24 hours
simply just to give uh the Americans um
the feeling that they are coming in and
there is still hope for a ceasefire
extension to go in and bomb was an
American is here is incredibly bad optic
something the israelies would like to
avoid okay for now Imran Khan there for
us and occupied East Jerusalem many
thanks for that update let's go to Tarak
Abu AUM who's in hanun in southern Gaza
so with 10 minutes to spare as you've
been hearing that deadline that was due
to expire right now has been extended We
Believe for 24 hours that's what we're
hearing uh what's your reaction there in
Gaza yes uh the minutes that had
preceded the announcement of the
extension of the ceasefire for a new day
was really critical and hot for
Palestinians where fear and anxiety were
taking control over all emotions of
gazans inside the besieged territory
where Palestinians lost hope at the last
time and the last minute that there is
going to be any new extension as Hamas
from its side had give a sign for its
forces to be ready for any possibility
for the new renew fighting uh with the
Israeli soldiers on the ground as there
is no any official statement had been
released just until the last uh uh
minutes of the uh end of the previous
cease fire but later Hamas had said that
they have reached to and further
extension for further one day which can
give a clear sign that Palestinians will
have a new day uh clear of the Israeli
bombar now earlier today the majority of
people start and even from earlier hours
they start to return back again to the
hospital in order to remain in and to be
away from the Israeli possible renew of
of bombardment and after they just heard
the news that there's going to be a new
extension for a new day they started to
return back again to the houses just
simply because they believed that in
your renew fighting inside the Gaza
Strip will bring Devastation and
catastrophic consequences on different
life aspects so clearly now Palestinians
have had sense of relief and they can
right now have moments of breathe as the
the extension will B the way for further
release of Israeli hostages from the
Gaza Strip and from the Israeli site
more Palestinians will be released from
the Israeli jails okay for now TK Abu
aom there for us in khun in southern
Gaza thank you for that